# Substance Abuse

The company has vital interests in ensuring a safe, healthy and efficient working environment for our employees, their co-workers and the clients we serve. The unlawful or improper presence or use of controlled substances or alcohol in the workplace presents a danger to everyone. For these reasons, we have established as a condition of employment and continued employment with the company the following substance abuse policy.

Employees are prohibited from reporting to work or working while using illegal or unauthorized substances. Employees are prohibited from reporting to work or working when the employee uses any controlled substance, except when the use is pursuant to a doctor's orders and the doctor advised the employee that the substance does not adversely affect the employee's ability to safely perform his or her job duties.

In addition, employees are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful or unauthorized manufacture, distribution, sale or possession of illegal or unauthorized substances and alcohol in the workplace including: on company paid time, on company premises, in company vehicles, or while engaged in company activities. Our employees are also prohibited from reporting for duty or remaining on duty with any alcohol in their systems. Employees are further prohibited from consuming alcohol during working hours, including meal and break periods. This does not include the authorized use of alcohol at company-sponsored functions or activities.

Your employment or continued employment with the company is conditioned upon your full compliance with the foregoing substance abuse policy. Any violation of this policy may result in disciplinary action, up to and including discharge.

Consistent with its fair employment policy, the company maintains a policy of non-discrimination and reasonable accommodation with respect to recovering addicts and alcoholics, and those having a medical history reflecting treatment for substance abuse conditions. We encourage employees to seek assistance before their substance or alcohol use renders them unable to perform their essential job functions or jeopardizes the health and safety of themselves or others. The company will attempt to assist its employees through referrals to rehabilitation, appropriate leaves of absence and other measures consistent with the company's policies and applicable federal, state or local laws.

The company further reserves the right to take any and all appropriate and lawful actions necessary to enforce this substance abuse policy including, but not limited to, the inspection of company issued lockers, desks or other suspected areas of concealment, as well as an employee's personal property when the company has reasonable suspicion to believe that the employee has violated this substance abuse policy.
